you know what
the second best thing about being a
photographer is getting to drive the digger
now why am I here? why am I sitting in a digger? why am I in this sort of odd environment?
well, I wanna talk to about practicing things now I learnt to drive a digger by
by doing lots of practice, but you ned to do lots and lots of
practice with your photography and you
can do that any way you like and that's
why we're here, I mean look at this place right, just have a little look around.
okay what pictures could you possibly
take here? it is uninspiring
it is a mess, we've got rubbish, we got wheelbarrows we've got all this kinda stuff going on.
The thing is you can practice
some simple photography techniques
anywhere I said it so many times in your
living room in the front room in the
rain
any way you like stuff like composition
you know creative things you can do
anywhere basic composition things we're
gonna do that in a minute the first
thing you have to get your head around
when you're learning about photography
is you've got to give up wanting amazing
pictures
when you see amazing pictures we'll go, I'm gonna buy a camera, I'm gonna shoot stuff
like that but you're not seeing the
dedication of work that went into getting
them
was talking to my friend Bella West, only last week actually
about her fellowship, she had fellowship
to the
master photographers Association she also got a fellowship to the British Institute
of professional photographers that's a
massive achievement
and people look at her panel of pictures and go wow isn't Bella West great? and
she is great
but what you don't see when you look at
the pictures in her panels
is that it took her six years
to produce what a dozen? a couple dozen pictures for her panels,
six years work went into that she failed her fellowships
twice she had to change direction and
alter the whole project on many
occasions and had many nights staying up
staying awake crying tears all that
kinda stuff thinking about giving up
that is why now you can't just go and buy a camera and do that immediately, Now ok
that's an extreme example but I just
wanna show you that by practicing
and a bit dedication you can practice
this stuff anyway that's why we're here.
I'm gonna go and grab a camera, and show you what I'm on about.
He's really lost it this time.
Notice I'm using my old D300 and an ordinary lens, ok. This is my little 18 to
70. I'm not going to go into all the techy things, we're just gonna look at
composition, let's kind of
see if we can bring a couple of the
creative and technical things together
let's have a look a
you know maybe how we use our zooms, and how we compose things, put those two
together.
we might have to play with exposure I
don't know yet but the main thing is
composition that's gonna make the
biggest difference so what can we do you
know there's nothing there's a load of  rubbish,
couple of old wheelbarrows ok, if I just sort of stood here and went
that's just ridiculous isn't it just a
complete load of rubbish
so think how can you do this,
compositions all about aligning things
and moving things around,
so what would the wheelbarrows look like from a different angle? you know.
I'm using a wide lens, I got  18
millimeters on this, so let's maybe get  down
here and see,
okay it looks different
is still not very interesting but I'd
say it's got a little bit more
interesting
what if we got a bit closer get the
wheelbarrows to fill the frame a bit more,
its what I mean about practicing, and if I come in here
and take my white card out of the wheelbarrow, which we just used to
white balance the video camera
Come in here, get a bit lower, get like in here somewhere, we're getting in
close I'm putting this wheelbarrow
in the bottom right corner of the frame
and that one over to the left you know
we're starting to move things around and
practice
alignment here we go I'm focusing on this
wheelbarrow
using autofocus single point. I'm just lining things up
and there's another picture,
is starting to get more interesting it's
not brilliant
of course you're not going to see this picture on the walls in ikea, but you're practicing
something.
what would it look like if we made the
lens longer and moved further away?
you know this is all experiment, notice you don't just take the same thing over
and over again.
what would happen
from back here and down low, I'm a bit too close let's get back a bit further,
see if we get the shot past the bucket
of the digger, I do love a digger. Here we go,
and I'm putting the wheelbarrows towards the of bottom of the frame
there we go Hey look
through four very 12 3 4
very different pictures of those
wheelbarrows but I think you'll agree
the last couple three pictures
look a considering lot more interesting than the first one you imagine what you can do when
you're somewhere were there is actually something that's
interesting to look at if you know those
techniques because you've practice them.
Let's go and find another one. I like these,
that's why Lorna got here first because I pointed at them,
I like this shape, I don't know if there's a picture here or not but it's still something you can play with.
I kinda like the light, it's a bit dull and overcast and boring
but look I just think that those angular shapes on this fence post and a bit of
sawdust maybe there's a
a graphics sort of a shape there, so how would we take a picture of it? if we just
standing up like that
oh yes that's very exciting isn't it,
don't think I can hardly contain myself. Think right,
use your, first block of photography.
Well if we're going to have a graphic shot, recompose the picture,
how would we do that well by moving and
shifting the camera around, so let's bend my
knees a bit
and see if I can get close, put these near the bottom of the composition, and
that running up through the middle, let's see what happens. So let's just kinda focus
on the post
it's almost like a inverted CND symbol
really rubbish doesn't it how can we
change it
that bright band of light running through the back is just kind of
a mess me learn from your mistakes by
looking at going that doesn't work that
some access distracting from the posts
well how could we lose them we could go
somewhere else obviously
but how about doing something technical
to assist your creativity
let's make the lens a bit longer
you know guys is seeing all this stuff
in my free videos so this might the lens
a bit longer
and trying to impose the same shot
because with a longer lens
what if we go all cum on hands up when
he shouting
we go okay
so let's take it from here he say
we got much the same picture BCN at
Brighton in the background has
disappeared
this is all good learning this is
learning how to
link your your creative brain with you
technical know-how you know this is
learning how to use your brushes wanna
be like return the shot the other way
everyone seems to want to hold a camera
like this when the beginning and I think
about that
all like that in my case okay let's get
a little closer
and tried again he is
that's a bit better
when you flick between them it seems to
suit the shape better I think minutes
you know vertical that way up some great
picture
that you just practiced a technique
I'm sure there's more you can do cups
going on the lawn exciting on bike too
many understand their anger like that
and even have a dog's poor in there this
is kind of a mess is Nathan I think how
could you compose that northerner
brushed the dogs gonna stay there far
what would happen if we got down low you
know is really tempting to just take a
picture of
the dog along with the cuts like
blackwell
have dolls latte how about now if we got
down
the dog level and said hello brush brush
and hope he doesn't do that
stop a I don't a case you you know
all for breath anyway okay let's see
into that one
thought we might get a dog shop we might
still
but look at these cops to taking a page
from from above
but just doesn't work there's a so how
about getting an onto Cup level
getting in a bit closer we don't really
want it from here
we don't really want I don't think bits
have car
and a bit a dog in the background daily
how could we lose that
think you know you see creative juices
in link into the technical a little bit
well we can make the lens a bit longer
I'll to the field of view is narrower
and we lost the dog leases putting a
place now who can't help it so we're
gonna guess kinda
national network sorry got sidetracked
sorry viewers
make the focal length: a bit longer and
focus in on the cups lying on the grass
that's not the nicest exciting picture
cuts lying on the lawn when you go back
to the first picture
here I would to dog pools 19 both
actually have merits
you see what I mean by changing
different things so we don't want the
dog in there
at all we wanna kinda look across the
cups maybe
well how bout now you may have to move
lorna in
on a comment here but change the angle
as for compositions all about
this change the background change the
angle let's stay down low
and practice try something differently
I'm gonna keep the lens fairly short
what are we on or not 150 this is what I
me also that doesn't matter what your
focal length is
mmm
one works that makes the picture look
nice so we need
so here we go leader he's got the cups a
little niece not a bad little picture
it's just in a different its
its practice that's the key to all these
things
you know you just kinda go like undying
that it just doesn't work does it
now I'm banged on about exposure and all
that kind of stuff because I just wanted
to show you
a way to practice something from
practice everything all at once
tantrum bite off more than you can chew
as you become more experience with each
of the different
disciplines if you like photography like
exposure using chat as a lack kinda
stuff I just want to demonstrate there's
no excuse
not being able to practice something
pretty much
anywhere thrifted practice in
composition and a composition is a
pic struggle for of people I've mostly
been talking about the said
to have my main building blocks for
photography only going to laugh but you
heard me say before guys assembling book
talk you can teach you how to think like
a photographer and that is
so important that's what we've just been
doing we've been thinking we've been
thinking how do we do this how can we
change that
we've been doing and the most appalling
environment and what would
it be like if you had a reasonable goal
Maddon
unite will be nice to be what it be like
a reasonable environment quite a nice
car made with the moment lawn
maybe he had a couple glasses of wine on
the floor and you practiced with that
what would happen if you're in a nice
living room near a window you put
something on the table when you practice
different angles and moving around in
the light you start to get
these techniques and see what a
difference it makes in the Praxis become
second nature
and in those amazing pictures you won't
become byproducts
knowing what you're doing they magically
materialize on their own
but you don't need to necessarily
upgraded camera he possibly need to
upgrade
your photographer
you are speaking environments I suppose
I better leg it before the people I'm
that nigga in this has come back say a
subscribe to our YouTube channel to be
notified
each time we upload one all cool
photography videos well for more great
photo tips workshops and training
come in CSR website photography courses
da pace